## 1. SNP(single nucleotide polymorphisms)

## 2. SNP types
全基因组SNP突变可以分成6类（C>A, C>G, C>T, A>C, A>G, A>T）。以A:T>C:G为例，此种类型SNP突变包括A>C和T>G。由于测序数据既可比对到参考基因组的正链，也可比对到参考基因组的负链，当T>C类型突变出现在参考基因组正链上，A>G类型突变即在参考基因组负链的相同位置，所以将T>C和A>G划分成一类。


## 3. SNP calling

+ Some SNP callers are based on counting the number of reads for each alleles once appropriate thresholds for the sequencing and mapping qualities have been applied. This simple method is the one used by the **VarScan** SNP caller as well as by most of the commercial SNP callers. 
+ But other methods based on more advanced statistics have also been developed. 

tips:
+ skipping base recalibration and indel realignment had almost no impact on the quality of resulting variant calls
+ FreeBayes outperforms the GATK callers on both SNP and indel calling. The most recent versions of FreeBayes have improved sensitivity and specificity which puts them on par with GATK HaplotypeCaller.
+ GATK HaplotypeCaller is all around better than the UnifiedGenotyper.

## 3. SNP filtering

## 3.1. 

**Low quality**
SNP callers usually assign a quality (probability) to the SNPs. We can filter out the SNPs with lower qualities.

**Missing data**
We could filter the SNPs with large amount of missing genotypes. This could happen, for example, in RNASeq experiments (in genes with low expression in some samples), in GBS experiments or in low coverge genome sequencings.

**Number of alleles**
It is possible to remove the monomorphic SNPs or to filter out the SNPs that are not biallelic.

**Kind**
We can filter the SNVs according to its type: SNV, indel, complex or structural variation

**Position**
We can filters the SNPs according to its location in the genome. For instance, we could keep only the SNPs found in an exon or in a coding region.

It is also common to thin out the SNPs, to select one SNP every some kilobases in the genome.

**Low Complexity Region**
It has been shown that due to problems with the PCR and the alignment the low complexity regions are particularly prone to false positive SNPs. We could remove them with a low complexity filter. These are also the regions that tend to be more variable in the populations, so by removing those SNPs we will create lots of false negatives. This filter will tend to decrease the amount of information, but hopefully will also remove quite a lot of noise.

**Flag and info**
We could filter the SNPs according to the flag and info fields found in the VCF files. It is usual that a tools that runs a filter in a VCF file just puts a tag in the VCF flag field.

**Minor Allele Frequency (MAF)**
MAF can sometimes refer to the Minor Allele Frequency and sometimes to the Major Allele Frequency. Both statistics convey the same information for the biallelic SNPs, but the Major Allele Frequency is more straightforward if we have more than 2 alleles.

SNPs due to sequencing errors will usually have major allele frequencies close to 1, because few genotypes will have an allele due to the error. So we could remove most SNPs due to sequencing errors by using this filter. If we do it, we will also filter out lots of real SNPs that are almost fixed in the population.

If we are dealing with a segregant population we usually expect a range of MAF values and we can use this information to decide which SNPs should be filtered out.

If we have pooled samples we might consider applying this filter to individual samples.

Another very related measure is MAC: major/minor allele count.

**Observed Heterozygosity**
One common source of false positive SNPs with high heterozygosity rates is due to duplicated regions found in the problem sample that are not found in the reference genome. It is common to have SNPs in these regions with heterozygosities close to 0.5. In such cases the SNPs will be due to reads from the two copies that are piled in the only copy found in the reference genome. This cases can not be avoided by filtering the reads with MAPQ because since only one copy of the duplication is found in the reference genome the mapper software can not guess that there is a problem due to a repetitive element. Another way to spot these false positives is to look for SNPs with a high coverage.

**High Coverage**
An excessive coverage can point to false positives due to duplicated regions in the sequenced sample not found in the reference genome. See also the observed heterozygosity filter.

**Highly Variable Region**
Having regions with too many SNPs could also be a sign that we are piling up reads from repeated regions. We could filter out the SNPs located in such highly variable regions. This analysis is usually done counting the number of SNPs in a window around each SNP.

It can also be useful to remove the SNPs with an SNP too close if we want to design primers to do a PCR or genotyping experiment. In this case we might also want to remove the SNPs that are close to the start or the end of the reference sequence. This could be particularly relevant if we are using a transcriptome as a reference.

**Linkage Disequilibrium**
If we have genotype a segregant population it could be useful to filter out the SNPs that are not in linkage disequilibrium with their closest SNPs. Many of these unlinked SNPs will be false positives.

**Variability**
We might be interested in filtering out or selecting SNPs that are variable in a set of samples or that differenciate two sets of samples.

**Aminoacid change**
We can select the SNPs with large impacts in the coded proteins. The SnpEff tool can be used for that.

**Cap enzyme**
We can select the SNPs that create restriction sites if we want to detect them by PCR and restriction enzyme digestion.

**HWE**
We can also filter out the SNPs that are not in HWE or that show a non-medelian segregation in a segregant population.

**Filters for Genotypes**
It is also possible to filter out not SNPs, but genotypes. In this case the genotype is usually set to not determined.

To genotype a sample with good quality we need more information than to just get the SNP with good quality. If we have several samples, all their reads will contribute information to determine the SNP, but to get the genotype of any of them we need enough coverage in the given sample.

Two common filters used for genotypes are the depth of coverage for the genotypes and the genotype quality that is created by most SNP callers.

**Filters for Samples**
We might also be interested in filtering out some individuals. Some common criteria are: amount of missing genotype calls and observed heterozygosity.



#### Ref_Info
https://bioinf.comav.upv.es/courses/sequence_analysis/snp_calling.html
http://bcb.io/2014/08/12/validated-whole-genome-structural-variation-detection-using-multiple-callers/
http://bcb.io/2015/03/05/cancerval/
https://www.cnblogs.com/Acceptyly/p/3440133.html